The service class is the middle layer of a three layer code base.
The service class is the middleman between the repository and the controller.
It also contains every business related operation.
So in this lesson, you will finally refactor your code into three parts.
Going through the process.
The controller, class and repository should not communicate directly.
The service class must act as a middleman between the two.
Any calls to the repository will first pass by the service class.
Step two is to move every business related operation from the controller into service.
The controller class's only concern should be managing the model and presenting the view.
We already stripped the controller class of card related operations, and now the next step is to strip
it from business related logic.
The service class should act as a middleman between the controller and the repository.
The controller and repository should not communicate directly.
The layer that handles the business logic should be the one that communicates with the repo.
So the controller communicates with the service, and the service in turn communicates with the repository.
So what we'll do is inside the controller class, create a new instance of grade service.
Great service.
Great service is equal to a new great service object.
And now, because great service is the middleman between the repo and the controller, we're going to
call the methods from great service instead.
And we will have to copy all of these functions.
Integrate service.
Now, of course you cannot make CRUD operations anywhere except the grid repo.
So here we're going to have to create an instance of the greater repository grade repo is equal to a
new grade repository object.
We can do the same thing all over.
All right.
Perform the necessary inputs.
Here is an example of a computation.
This logic does not belong in the controller.
So inside service, we're going to add a new method called get grade index.
That returns an index upon receiving an ID.
And what we can do is delete all of the logic from controller.
And place it inside of service.
We're already inside of grade service, so we can remove that.
And we'll have to import the constant class.
Make sure you import the right class.
There are so many things you can import to make sure you import the right one.
Okay.
And now going back to grade controller.
Call great service.
Get great index wherever you need to.
Okay.
And now this is an example of a decision making process.
First, it looks for an index based on an ID, and if the index leads to no result, then it returns
a new grade object.
Otherwise, it retrieves a grade object at a particular index.
This is business logic and it does not belong in the controller.
So what we'll do is inside the service class, add a new method called get grade by ID.
Public.
Grade.
Get grade.
I.
I'd.
That returns an object once it receives an ID.
Okay.
Now you can remove the logic from the controller.
Or you know what?
Don't remove it yet.
Just copy and paste it.
We'll go back to it.
We're already inside of great service, so we're good here.
And now what we have to do is return a grade based on the index that we get.
So if the index is equal to invalid return a new grade.
Otherwise, call the get grade function.
And now back in the controller, I can remove all of this logic and just say model dot add attribute
grade.
And call great service dot get grade by ID.
Beautiful.
Now submitting a grade also involves a decision making process.
If the index yields no meaningful result, it adds a grade.
Otherwise it updates the grade at a particular index.
This logic does not belong in the controller.
So inside the service class, what I'm going to do is add a new method called submit grade.
Public void.
Submit grade.
That's going to take care of all the business logic.
It's going to receive a great object.
And then inside we can just copy and paste the logic from the controller.
And make the changes where necessary.
So we don't have to call great service here.
We can just say add grade and update grade.
All right.
And now back in grade controller, I can just say.
Great service.
Dot submit grade.
And this is looking pretty good.
Look at how much better the code looks.
The only thing the controller is doing is managing the model and presenting the view.
The service class contains all of the business logic and is the middleman between the controller and
the repo.
The repo performs the crud related operations on the data store.
I have to say we've come a long way in the past.
Two lessons.
So to recap, you refactored your code base into three layers.
We stripped the controller class of CRUD related operations and placed them inside the repo.
We removed all of the business logic and placed them inside the service class.
The layer that handles the business logic should be the one that communicates with the repo.
So service is also the middleman between the controller and the repository.
The controller communicates with the service, which in turn communicates with the repository.
The three layer design ensures that your code is clean and easier to scale.
And as you can tell right now, the code is really clean.